_sources/CSP/CSPPythonData/summary.rst, before:

..  Copyright (C)  Mark Guzdial, Barbara Ericson, Briana Morrison
    Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
    under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
    any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with
    Invariant Sections being Forward, Prefaces, and Contributor List,
    no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
    is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".

.. setup for automatic question numbering.




Chapter 18 - Concept Summary
============================

Chapter 18 included the following concepts from computing.

..	index::
    single: close
    single: comment
    single: find
    single: open
    single: split


- **Comment** - A comment in Python starts with a ``#`` and the computer will ignore everything from that character to the end of that line.  Comments are used to explain your code to people.

Summary of Python Keywords and Functions
------------------------------------------- 
- **Close** - The ``close`` procedure closes a file after you are done processing it.  
- **Find** - The ``find`` function is used like this ``strName.find(test)``.  It returns the index of ``test`` in ``strName`` if it is found and -1 if it is not found.
- **Open** - The ``open`` procedure opens the passed file for either reading or writing.  
- **Split** - The ``split`` function returns a list of strings separated by a specified character.  For example, if ``message = "Nora, Jones, 15"`` then ``message.split(",")`` would return ``['Nora', 'Jones', '15']``.

.. note::  

   This is the end of chapter 18.   We would love it if you could give us some feedback on this chapter at https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/ch18-student-fb.  You might want to open this link in a new tab to make it easier for you to return to your place in this ebook.

Commit message:

Add data processing with Python chapter

_sources/CSP/CSPPythonData/summary.rst, after:

..  Copyright (C)  Mark Guzdial, Barbara Ericson, Briana Morrison
    Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
    under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
    any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with
    Invariant Sections being Forward, Prefaces, and Contributor List,
    no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
    is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".

.. setup for automatic question numbering.




Chapter Concept Summary
============================

This chapter included the following concepts from computing.

.. index::
    single: file; binary
    single: file; text
    single: split

- **Text Files** - Files in which data is stored as ASCII text. Thus even numbers are stored as
  strings. These files are easy for humans to work with, but less efficient for computers.

- **Binary Files** - Files in which data is stored in its raw binary form. This is more efficient
  for computers to work with, but very difficult for humans to work with unless they use
  special tools.

Summary of Python Keywords and Functions
------------------------------------------- 
- **Close** - The ``close`` procedure closes a file after you are done processing it.
- **Open** - The ``open`` procedure opens the passed file for either reading or writing.
- **Split** - The ``split`` function can be called on a string to break it up at a specified
  character into a list of strings. For example, if ``message = "Nora,Jones,15"``
  then ``message.split(",")`` would return ``['Nora', 'Jones', '15']``.
