_sources/ComputingFields/ComputerEngineering.rst, before:

.. include:: ../global.rst

.. index:: computer engineering

Computer Engineering
=====================================

C\ **omputer Engineers** research, design, develop and test computer chips, circuit boards, computer systems, and related equipment. They need to understand computer programming, as they are the ones who design the hardware that runs programs, but in general, their work is more focused on the hardware itself.

**Typical careers:**

* `Computer engineer <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/architecture-and-engineering/computer-hardware-engineers.htm>`__


**Education:**

To work in this field you need a Bachelor's degree in Computer Engineering. At some schools, instead of a separate Computer Engineering degree, students specialize in that field while earning a degree in Electrical Engineering.

In addition to deep knowledge of computer hardware and some programming knowledge, Computer Engineers
need to do significant course work in general engineering principles, physics, and math. 

**Knowledge Domains:**

This diagram illustrates the knowledge areas required in this field. A 5 represents a very high degree of required expertise while 1 represents a minimal amount.
 
.. raw:: html

    <div>
      <canvas id="disciplineChart" height="500px" style="width: 100%"></canvas>
    </div>
    <div style="margin: 0 auto; text-align:center; font-family: Roboto; font-size: 0.8em;">Click a discipline label to enable or disable it in the visualization.</div>
    

  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/chart.js@3.5.1/dist/chart.min.js"></script>
  <script src="../_static/ACMDataVis.js"></script>
    <script>
      makeChart("disciplineChart", ["CE"]);
    </script>
   
    



.. quick_attribution:: ACM

Commit message:

Add references to Chemeketa programs back to computing-related fields.

_sources/ComputingFields/ComputerEngineering.rst, after:

.. include:: ../global.rst

.. index:: computer engineering

Computer Engineering
=====================================

C\ **omputer Engineers** research, design, develop and test computer chips, circuit boards, computer systems, and related equipment. They need to understand computer programming, as they are the ones who design the hardware that runs programs, but in general, their work is more focused on the hardware itself.

**Typical careers:**

* `Computer engineer <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/architecture-and-engineering/computer-hardware-engineers.htm>`__


**Education:**

To work in this field you need a Bachelor's degree in Computer Engineering. At some schools, instead of a separate Computer Engineering degree, students specialize in that field while earning a degree in Electrical Engineering. At Chemeketa, you can start studying computer engineering in the `Engineering program`_.

.. _`Engineering program`: https://www.chemeketa.edu/programs-classes/program-finder/engineering/

In addition to deep knowledge of computer hardware and some programming knowledge, Computer Engineers
need to do significant course work in general engineering principles, physics, and math. 

**Knowledge Domains:**

This diagram illustrates the knowledge areas required in this field. A 5 represents a very high degree of required expertise while 1 represents a minimal amount.
 
.. raw:: html

    <div>
      <canvas id="disciplineChart" height="500px" style="width: 100%"></canvas>
    </div>
    <div style="margin: 0 auto; text-align:center; font-family: Roboto; font-size: 0.8em;">Click a discipline label to enable or disable it in the visualization.</div>
    

  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/chart.js@3.5.1/dist/chart.min.js"></script>
  <script src="../_static/ACMDataVis.js"></script>
    <script>
      makeChart("disciplineChart", ["CE"]);
    </script>
   
    



.. quick_attribution:: ACM
