_sources/ComputingFields/ComputerScience.rst, before:

.. include:: ../global.rst

.. index:: computer science

Computer Science
=====================================

Despite its name, much of **computer science** is not focused on the study of computers themselves. 
Instead, computer scientists are more concerned with understanding what problems can be solved with
computation and how we can most efficiently and appropriately solve those problems with *algorithms*. 
(An algorithm is simply a step by step process for solving a problem.) 

Computer science tends to have a more theoretical focus than other computing disciplines. There is a 
core to the discipline that is closely related to ideas in math and logic. But the discipline also 
applies those theoretical tools to solve specific problems in areas from artificial intelligence,
to graphics, to simulations, and many others.

**Typical careers:**

#. `Software Developer <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/software-developers.htm>`__
#. `Computer Research Scientist <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/computer-and-information-research-scientists.htm>`__


**Education:**

* Working as a software developer requires a Bachelor's degree
* Working as a research scientist requires a graduate degree (Master's of PhD).

The first year of study generally focuses on programming - the essential skill needed to solve problems using a computer. Courses in the following years tend to be more focused on the theory of why software and hardware work and how to build software.

During their Jr and Sr years students usually can chose from classes to concentrate in a specific area
(graphics, databases, artificial intelligence, computational biology, software development). For students who
intend to become software developers, this is an important opportunity to take courses on software engineering
and applied programming skills.

Computer science students generally need a strong core of mathematics to support the theoretical parts of
their CS coursework.


**Knowledge Domains:**

This diagram illustrates the knowledge areas required in this field. A 5 represents a very high degree of required expertise while 1 represents a minimal amount.
 
.. raw:: html

    <div>
      <canvas id="disciplineChart" height="500px" style="width: 100%"></canvas>
    </div>
    <div style="margin: 0 auto; text-align:center; font-family: Roboto; font-size: 0.8em;">Click a discipline label to enable or disable it in the visualization.</div>
    

  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/chart.js@3.5.1/dist/chart.min.js"></script>
  <script src="../_static/ACMDataVis.js"></script>
    <script>
      makeChart("disciplineChart", ["CS"]);
    </script>
   

.. quick_attribution:: ACM

Commit message:

Add references to Chemeketa programs back to computing-related fields.

_sources/ComputingFields/ComputerScience.rst, after:

.. include:: ../global.rst

.. index:: computer science

Computer Science
=====================================

Despite its name, much of **computer science** is not focused on the study of computers themselves. 
Instead, computer scientists are more concerned with understanding what problems can be solved with
computation and how we can most efficiently and appropriately solve those problems with *algorithms*. 
(An algorithm is simply a step by step process for solving a problem.) 

Computer science tends to have a more theoretical focus than other computing disciplines. There is a 
core to the discipline that is closely related to ideas in math and logic. But the discipline also 
applies those theoretical tools to solve specific problems in areas from artificial intelligence,
to graphics, to simulations, and many others.

**Typical careers:**

#. `Software Developer <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/software-developers.htm>`__
#. `Computer Research Scientist <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/computer-and-information-research-scientists.htm>`__


**Education:**

* Working as a software developer requires a Bachelor's degree
* Working as a research scientist requires a graduate degree (Master's of PhD).

The first year of study generally focuses on programming - the essential skill needed to solve problems using a computer. Courses in the following years tend to be more focused on the theory of why software and hardware work and how to build software.

During their Jr and Sr years students usually can chose from classes to concentrate in a specific area
(graphics, databases, artificial intelligence, computational biology, software development). For students who
intend to become software developers, this is an important opportunity to take courses on software engineering
and applied programming skills.

Computer science students generally need a strong core of mathematics to support the theoretical parts of
their CS coursework.

You can start studying computer science at Chemeketa in the `Computer Science program`_.

.. _`Computer Science program`: http://computerscience.chemeketa.edu/


**Knowledge Domains:**

This diagram illustrates the knowledge areas required in this field. A 5 represents a very high degree of required expertise while 1 represents a minimal amount.
 
.. raw:: html

    <div>
      <canvas id="disciplineChart" height="500px" style="width: 100%"></canvas>
    </div>
    <div style="margin: 0 auto; text-align:center; font-family: Roboto; font-size: 0.8em;">Click a discipline label to enable or disable it in the visualization.</div>
    

  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/chart.js@3.5.1/dist/chart.min.js"></script>
  <script src="../_static/ACMDataVis.js"></script>
    <script>
      makeChart("disciplineChart", ["CS"]);
    </script>
   

.. quick_attribution:: ACM
