_sources/ComputingFields/InformationTechnology.rst, before:

.. include:: ../global.rst

.. index:: information technology

Information Technology
=====================================
 
Although the term **Information Technology** is sometimes used to any career involving computers,
in the world of education it has a more specific meaning - the skill set required to put computers
to work in a business or other organization.

IT professionals have the responsibility for installing and maintaining hardware and software products
as well as to integrate those products with each other to meet organizational needs. They often work
directly with non-technical users of complex technology and to support those users and fix issues.

A broad range of basic knowledge is required for an IT professional - they need to understand the
basics of networking, programming, operating systems, computer hardware, and security. On top of
this base layer of knowledge, many IT professionals develop more extensive expertise in a particular
area such as database administration, system administration, cybersecurity.
   
**Typical careers:**

#. `Computer Support Specialist <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/information-security-analysts.htm>`__
#. `Network and Systems Administrator <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/network-and-computer-systems-administrators.htm>`__
#. `Database Administrator <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/database-administrators.htm>`__

**Education:**

Many entry level jobs in IT are open to anyone with a certificate or two-year degree Associate's. However, advanced jobs
in specific areas often require advanced training or certification in that field. For example, to become a
network administrator, you would need significant specialized knowledge in installing and configuring computer
networks on top of the base level of knowledge expected from all IT professionals.

Positions with more business or management responsibility may require a Bachelor's degree.

**Knowledge Domains:**

This diagram illustrates the knowledge areas required in this field. A 5 represents a very high degree of
required expertise while 1 represents a minimal amount. Additional specialized knowledge in one or more areas
is often required for career advancement.
 
.. raw:: html

    <div>
      <canvas id="disciplineChart" height="500px" style="width: 100%"></canvas>
    </div>
    <div style="margin: 0 auto; text-align:center; font-family: Roboto; font-size: 0.8em;">Click a discipline label to enable or disable it in the visualization.</div>
    

  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/chart.js@3.5.1/dist/chart.min.js"></script>
  <script src="../_static/ACMDataVis.js"></script>
    <script>
      makeChart("disciplineChart", ["IT"]);
    </script>


.. quick_attribution:: ACM

Commit message:

Add references to Chemeketa programs back to computing-related fields.

_sources/ComputingFields/InformationTechnology.rst, after:

.. include:: ../global.rst

.. index:: information technology

Information Technology
=====================================
 
Although the term **Information Technology** is sometimes used to any career involving computers,
in the world of education it has a more specific meaning - the skill set required to put computers
to work in a business or other organization.

IT professionals have the responsibility for installing and maintaining hardware and software products
as well as to integrate those products with each other to meet organizational needs. They often work
directly with non-technical users of complex technology and to support those users and fix issues.

A broad range of basic knowledge is required for an IT professional - they need to understand the
basics of networking, programming, operating systems, computer hardware, and security. On top of
this base layer of knowledge, many IT professionals develop more extensive expertise in a particular
area such as database administration, system administration, cybersecurity.
   
**Typical careers:**

#. `Computer Support Specialist <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/information-security-analysts.htm>`__
#. `Network and Systems Administrator <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/network-and-computer-systems-administrators.htm>`__
#. `Database Administrator <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/database-administrators.htm>`__

**Education:**

Many entry level jobs in IT are open to anyone with a certificate or two-year degree Associate's. However, advanced jobs
in specific areas often require advanced training or certification in that field. For example, to become a
network administrator, you would need significant specialized knowledge in installing and configuring computer
networks on top of the base level of knowledge expected from all IT professionals.

Positions with more business or management responsibility may require a Bachelor's degree.

You can start studying information technology at Chemeketa in the `Computer Information Systems program`_.

.. _`Computer Information Systems program`: https://www.chemeketa.edu/programs-classes/program-finder/computer-information-systems/

**Knowledge Domains:**

This diagram illustrates the knowledge areas required in this field. A 5 represents a very high degree of
required expertise while 1 represents a minimal amount. Additional specialized knowledge in one or more areas
is often required for career advancement.
 
.. raw:: html

    <div>
      <canvas id="disciplineChart" height="500px" style="width: 100%"></canvas>
    </div>
    <div style="margin: 0 auto; text-align:center; font-family: Roboto; font-size: 0.8em;">Click a discipline label to enable or disable it in the visualization.</div>
    

  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/chart.js@3.5.1/dist/chart.min.js"></script>
  <script src="../_static/ACMDataVis.js"></script>
    <script>
      makeChart("disciplineChart", ["IT"]);
    </script>


.. quick_attribution:: ACM
