_sources/ComputingFields/InformationSystems.rst, before:

.. include:: ../global.rst

.. index:: information Systems

Information Systems
=====================================
 
In some ways **Information Systems** attacks the same basic problem as Information Technology,
in that it is focused on making computer technology work for people and organizations.

However, while IT is more concerned with the technology itself, Information Systems focuses
more on business related issues. They are interested in questions like: "What information
does the enterprise need?", "How is that information generated?", "Is it delivered to the people
who need it? Is it presented to them in ways that permit them to use it readily?"

Information Systems degrees generally have a blend of courses in technology, business, and
communications. IS professionals must understand both technical and organizational factors
so they can serve as a bridge between the technical and management groups in an organization.

**Typical careers:**

#. `Computer Systems Analyst <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/computer-systems-analysts.htm>`__

**Education:**

Because IS jobs tend to have significant business and management responsibilities, they are more likely to require a Bachelor's
degree than IT jobs.

An Information Systems degree will combine technical knowledge and business knowledge in different degrees. Some IS programs
have a more technical focus, with a core of technical skills like an IT professional. Other programs are much
more business focused and have technical courses that don't focus on developing practical skills, but instead focus
on understanding how technologies are used so that the IS practitioner can manage people with the more applied skills.

**Knowledge Domains:**

This diagram illustrates the knowledge areas required in this field. A 5 represents a very high degree of required expertise while 1 represents a minimal amount.
 
.. raw:: html

    <div>
      <canvas id="disciplineChart" height="500px" style="width: 100%"></canvas>
    </div>
    <div style="margin: 0 auto; text-align:center; font-family: Roboto; font-size: 0.8em;">Click a discipline label to enable or disable it in the visualization.</div>
    

  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/chart.js@3.5.1/dist/chart.min.js"></script>
  <script src="../_static/ACMDataVis.js"></script>
    <script>
      makeChart("disciplineChart", ["IS"]);
    </script>


.. quick_attribution:: ACM

Commit message:

Add references to Chemeketa programs back to computing-related fields.

_sources/ComputingFields/InformationSystems.rst, after:

.. include:: ../global.rst

.. index:: information Systems

Information Systems
=====================================
 
In some ways **Information Systems** attacks the same basic problem as Information Technology,
in that it is focused on making computer technology work for people and organizations.

However, while IT is more concerned with the technology itself, Information Systems focuses
more on business related issues. They are interested in questions like: "What information
does the enterprise need?", "How is that information generated?", "Is it delivered to the people
who need it? Is it presented to them in ways that permit them to use it readily?"

Information Systems degrees generally have a blend of courses in technology, business, and
communications. IS professionals must understand both technical and organizational factors
so they can serve as a bridge between the technical and management groups in an organization.

**Typical careers:**

#. `Computer Systems Analyst <http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/computer-systems-analysts.htm>`__

**Education:**

Because IS jobs tend to have significant business and management responsibilities, they are more likely to require a Bachelor's
degree than IT jobs.

An Information Systems degree will combine technical knowledge and business knowledge in different degrees. Some IS programs
have a more technical focus, with a core of technical skills like an IT professional. Other programs are much
more business focused and have technical courses that don't focus on developing practical skills, but instead focus
on understanding how technologies are used so that the IS practitioner can manage people with the more applied skills.

You can start studying information systems at Chemeketa in the `Computer Information Systems program`_.

.. _`Computer Information Systems program`: https://www.chemeketa.edu/programs-classes/program-finder/computer-information-systems/

**Knowledge Domains:**

This diagram illustrates the knowledge areas required in this field. A 5 represents a very high degree of required expertise while 1 represents a minimal amount.
 
.. raw:: html

    <div>
      <canvas id="disciplineChart" height="500px" style="width: 100%"></canvas>
    </div>
    <div style="margin: 0 auto; text-align:center; font-family: Roboto; font-size: 0.8em;">Click a discipline label to enable or disable it in the visualization.</div>
    

  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/chart.js@3.5.1/dist/chart.min.js"></script>
  <script src="../_static/ACMDataVis.js"></script>
    <script>
      makeChart("disciplineChart", ["IS"]);
    </script>


.. quick_attribution:: ACM
